well the prominent Palestinian activist
ahead Tamimi was among the 30 prisoners
released on Wednesday the 22-year-old
rose to prominence in 2017 when she
slapped an Israeli soldier who raided
her Village in the occupied West Bank at
the time she was sentenced to 8 months
in prison Tamimi was arrested again
earlier this month on suspicion of
inciting
violence let's get more now on this from
Al jazer Zayn basravi who joins us live
from rala in the occupied West Bank so
uh firstly uh we finally we we've had
this confirmation in the last uh 10
minutes or so that the truce is expected
to be extended by at least 24 hours that
will bring uh I believe some relief uh
where you are uh and the hope that more
Palestinians will also be released from
captivity yes every time we have spoken
to Palestinians here in the occupied
West Bank whether it was those who have
been detained whether it was their
families people being released regular
everyday people on the street those at
the celebrations everyone is excited and
they say the same thing that the release
of each and every Palestinian the every
single Palestinian who has freedom is a
reason for celebration and hope every
single extra day any Palestinian spends
in Israeli captivity is a reason to
continue to demand
Justice in the face of the occupation
all of that aside though they look at
this in the broader context every single
person also agrees that what they want
is for the ceasefire to carry on the
most important thing is to keep the two
sides talking keep the Israelis and the
Palestinians negotiating talking
maintain the ceasefire to make sure the
bombardment of Gaza does not restart the
Palestinians living here in the occupied
West Bank feel very connected obviously
to the conflict in Gaza they want that
to come to an end they want the horrors
of Gaza to stop one mother over the
course of the last week or so even said
to us that she was looking forward to
her daughter getting out she was cooking
her daughter's favorite meals but said
if it means that the bombardment of Gaza
will stop if the war on Gaza will end
that she would be willing to see her
daughter remain in prison so it's no
small thing for the people here that
this ceasefire has carried on and they
will no doubt be looking to the events
later today to make sure or to hopefully
to make sure that that carries on now
they also look at this in a broader
context yes these deten
these these detainees being released is
is is a positive step forward but in the
time that Israel has released 210
Palestinian detainees it is detained 203
new people here in raids at checkpoints
across the occupied West Bank more than
7,000
7,200 plus Palestinians remain in
Israeli custody a third of them detained
since the events of October 7th since
the war on Gaza began in raids in the
occupied West Bank so this territory
this part of the occupied territories
has certainly been suffering greatly
since the War Began it was already
suffering raids and incursions and and
uh constant pressure by Israeli forces
even before the war it went up in
intensity After the War Began and no
doubt people living across the occupied
territories will be looking to uh this
us shuttle diplomacy that is ongoing a
visit by US Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin later today there be looking to
that to see what comes out of it but it
has to be said there is not a great deal
of public trust not just in the
Americans but also in their own
leadership here in ramala in the
Palestinian Authority in the Palestinian
political leaders who many critics at
worst describe them as collaborating
with Israel as as acquiescing far too
much to the American policy on Israel to
Israeli oppressors and it has to be
remember that that lack of public trust
whether it is in this process of a
ceasefire of a swap deal or anything
else they they they look at it in the
broader context ever since the
Palestinian Authority the PLO took over
what we have seen is Palestinian lands
continue to shrink under their watch and
that is something that they have
criticized their leaders for and that
lack of trust will certainly be
something that plays out no matter what
happens in the next 24 hours or going
forward in the next days and
weeks okay many thanks for that zann
basravi there for us in rala in the
occupied West Bank